# Smart-Stick-For-The-Visually-Impaired-People

Life of a blind people is always challenging and more difficult than normal people’s life. So in this project our main idea is to make their life little bit easier. So our goal is to design a stick for them that will help them to walk or go anywhere fearlessly especially when they are crossing roads. We all can see every now and then that on the street that there is always a blind or impaired people needs help to cross road and most of people around him/her ignores and refuse to help them. So our stick will help these types of blind people to cross roads without needing anyone’s help. Basically our stick’s main features will be to detect the traffic light signals and alert the user whether to cross the road or not also it will detect any obstacle when user is walking with that stick by using ultrasonic sensor. To detect the traffic light we will use camera to capture the image of traffic light’s state and match it our stored traffic light pictures in database and alert the user accordingly. Besides this our stick can also detect stairs whether it is an upward or downward stair. Also there will be an android based application that will have all the data and it will be connected to microcontroller via Bluetooth. Another feature it will have that is it can tell the user location so that his/her relatives will know where the user is and if there is any kind of emergency user can send alert to emergency contacts by pressing the emergency panic button
